Jump to navigation
Jump to search
←Index
This page explains how the game stores and parses recipe data for cooking and crafting. (Tailoring recipes use a different format.) This is an advanced guide for mod developers.
Contents
1 Raw data
1.1 Cooking recipes
1.2 Crafting recipes
2 Format
2.1 Ingredients and yield
2.2 Unlock conditions
2.3 Exceptions
Raw data
Cooking recipes
Cooking recipe data is stored in Content\Data\CookingRecipes.xnb, which can be unpacked for editing. Here's the raw data as of 1.6.5 for reference:
Expand
Data 
Crafting recipes
Crafting recipe data is stored in Content\Data\CraftingRecipes.xnb, which can be unpacked for editing. Here's the raw data as of 1.6.5 for reference:
Expand
Data 
Format
Index Field Example Value
Cooking Crafting Cooking Crafting
Key Name Salad Stone Fence
0 Ingredients 20 1 22 1 419 1 390 2
1 (Unused) 25 5 Field
2 Yield 196 323
— 3 Big craftable? — false
3 4 Unlock conditions f Emily 3 Farming 2
4 5 Display name
Tokenizable String. Defaults to the display name of the first product if not given. Ensalada Valla de piedra
The values in field 1 are of different types for cooking and crafting recipes, but both kinds of value are unused by the game. For cooking, the field is set to a pair of numbers. For crafting, the field is set to Home or Field.
Ingredients and yield
The ingredients are a space-separated list of numbers in pairs. The first number of each pair is an object index from Data/Objects.xnb. (Negative numbers refer to categories, also listed in that article.) The second number of each pair is the quantity of that object that is required for the recipe.
The yield is also a space-separated list of numbers in pairs. The first number of each pair is an object or big craftable ID. The second number of each pair is the quantity of that object (or big craftable) that is created by the recipe. If there is only one object/craftable yielded, the quantity is optional and defaults to one.
Unlock conditions
The unlock conditions field supports any one of these condition types, depending on recipe type:
Syntax Applicability Description
f <NPC> <hearts> Cooking When the player reaches the given number of hearts of friendship with the named NPC, a letter with the key <NPC>Cooking will be queued for delivery tomorrow. That letter then unlocks the recipe with the %item cookingRecipe %% token.
s <skill> <level> both When the player reaches the given level of the named skill, the recipe will be unlocked on the level up menu. The valid skill names are Farming, Mining, Fishing, Foraging, Luck, and Combat (but Luck is unimplemented).
default both This recipe is learned automatically. Any missing default recipes will be learned on day start. For example, the chest recipe is "388 50/Home/130/true/default/".
none
or any other value both The recipe must be unlocked in some other way, such as an event. (See Exceptions below for starting recipes and other hard-coded unlocks.)
Exceptions
When the game cannot locate a recipe key in the data, the Torch recipe is loaded instead.
The Trapper profession is hard-coded to reset the ingredients for the Crab Pot recipe to 25 Wood and 2 Copper Bar.
The following recipes are hard-coded to be unlocked from the start of the game:
Chest
Wood Fence
Gate
Torch
Campfire
Wood Path
Cobblestone Path
Gravel Path
Wood Sign
Stone Sign
Fried Egg
The Cask recipe is hard-coded to unlock when the cellar upgrade is complete.
Recipes that are unlocked during vanilla game events are hard-coded to be unlocked when those events are skipped.
The recipes unlocked by The Queen of Sauce TV channel are set in Content\Data\TV\CookingChannel.xnb.
Category: Modding