Jump to navigation
Jump to search
â†Index
This page is for mod authors. Players: see the mod compatibility list instead.
This page explains how to update your mods for compatibility with Stardew Valley 1.3.
Contents
1 SMAPI mods
2 Content Patcher packs
2.1 Custom map tilesheets
2.2 Mine tilesheets
SMAPI mods
Most SMAPI mods are unaffected. If your mod broke, you probably just need to recompile a new DLL and release it. (Don't forget to update the manifest.json version!)
Content Patcher packs
Custom map tilesheets
If you use Action: Load to provide a custom tilesheet for a map, make sure it's in the Maps folder. For example:
// incorrect
"Target": "Tilesheet"

// correct
"Target": "Maps/Tilesheet"
Mine tilesheets
You might see this error for your content pack:
Microsoft.Xna.Framework.Content.ContentLoadException: Error loading "Maps\mine". File contains xTile.Map but trying to load as Microsoft.Xna.Framework.Graphics.Texture2D.
That happens because Content/mine.xnb (a tilesheet) was deleted in Stardew Valley 1.3.36, so the game is trying to load it from Content/Maps/mine.xnb (a map) instead.
You need to change the tilesheet reference to fix it. (These instructions assume the map file is unpacked and in an assets subfolder inside the content pack.)
If you already have a mine.png file in your content pack folder, delete it.
Unpack Content/Maps/Mines/mine.xnb.
Copy mine.png to assets/mine.png and assets/Mines/mine.png.
Open the .tbin file in Tiled.
In the 'Tilesets' pane, click the mine tilesheet's tab and click the edit icon at the bottom (which looks like a wrench). This should open the tilesheet in a separate tab.
At the top, click Tileset > Tileset Properties. This should open a 'Properties' pane.
Click the 'image' field, click the 'edit' button that appears, and click 'browse' in the window that opens.
Select the assets/Mines/mine.png file.
Save your changes to the map.
Delete the assets/mine.png file, which is no longer needed.
That's it! Don't forget to delete assets/mine.png from the content pack folder before releasing (unless you customised it), so Content Patcher loads the one provided by the game.
Category: Modding