Jump to navigation
Jump to search
←Index
Stardew Valley has a very friendly community. If you need help, this page is for you!
Contents
1 Get help with…
1.1 Using mods
1.2 Creating mods
1.3 Game problems
2 How to…
2.1 Get help
2.2 Share your log
2.3 Share screenshots
2.4 Share files
Get help with…
Using mods
Before you ask:
Check the player's guide to mods and troubleshooting page, many questions are answered there.
Need help with a specific mod? Try asking on its mod page or checking the mod compatibility list first.
See what to include when asking for help.
Where to ask:
The Stardew Valley Discord (no mic, audio, or download needed) has a #modded-tech-support forum for help installing/using mods, and a #modded-farmers channel for discussing mods in general.
r/SMAPI on Reddit for questions and discussions with the community for SMAPI, Content Patcher, and other mods and content packs.
The Mod Support section on the official forums.
Creating mods
Before you ask:
Check the mod author guide, many questions are answered there.
The guide has other sections in the sidebar! In particular, the troubleshooting and SMAPI reference pages may be useful.
Where to ask:
The Stardew Valley Discord (no mic, audio, or download needed) has #making-mods-general and #making-mods-art channels for help creating mods. Modders also discuss their work, chat, and collaborate here.
r/SMAPI on Reddit for questions and discussions with the community for SMAPI, Content Patcher, and other mods and content packs.
The Modding Discussion & Creation section on the official forums.
Game problems
Before you ask:
Do you use mods? Check if it happens without mods first. If not, see using mods instead.
See what to include when asking for help.
Where to ask:
The Help & Bug Reports section on the official forums.
The #vanilla-tech-support channel on the Stardew Valley Discord (no mic, audio, or download needed).
How to…
Get help
See the above sections for where to get help. Make sure you provide info to help find the problem, including…
your platform (e.g., Linux, Windows, Android, etc);
your game version;
your SMAPI log (if playing with mods);
repro steps (instructions to cause the issue);
screenshots of the issue (if relevant).
Share your log
(Only applies if you use mods.)
The SMAPI log has a lot of useful info; include it even if you don't see an error!
To share your log:
Upload it to smapi.io/log (see that page for instructions).
Copy the URL it gives you after uploading.
Include the URL when asking for help.
Share screenshots
Take a screenshot of the issue. See instructions for PC (Linux, macOS, Windows), mobile phone (Android or iOS), and Steam Deck (portable console).
Upload it to a site like Pasteboard.
Include the URL when asking for help.
Note: when asking for help on Discord, you can also paste or drag the file into Discord directly. Please only do this with screenshots as a link to your log is more helpful than uploading the file to Discord.
Share files
If you need to share files:
Upload it to a site like catbox.moe.
Include the URL when asking for help.
Category: Modding