Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This is Horizon98's talk page, where you can send messages and comments to Horizon98.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Contents
1 New editor
2 Templates
2.1 My intention
2.2 Talk pages
2.3 About violating the wiki policy
2.4 This wiki is maintained by everyone
2.5 Something you have done
3 Language Links
4 Should have visited sooner
5 Emails between Cole Medeiros and me
6 "Coat of many colors"
7 Helpfulness squared
New editor
I appreciate that you want to help a new editor who appeared to ask a legitimate question. However, what I saw in the abuse logs was vandalism and attempted personal insults. Please don't engage any further with the vandal in question. Thank you, margotbean (talk) 18:20, 14 May 2021 (UTC)
According to Special:AbuseLog and his contributions, I don't think what he has done is unforgivable. Besides, he didn't leave anything unsuitable on his talkpage, and the talkheader says that don't delete discussions. If you saw other vandalism or anything else, I'll make apologize for this. Horizon98 (talk) 04:24, 15 May 2021 (UTC)
Templates
I'm sorry to say this, but you aren't listening to my comments when I say not to make a particular change. Repeatedly undoing edits by an Admin is, strictly speaking, a violation of wiki policy. It also creates a lot more work for me.
I understand that you have only the best intentions. You need to understand that when I say "no" to a change, I've thought about it and made the best and final decision for the wikis, based on information that you may not have. Please consider this a formal request to stop undoing Admin edits and changing templates without discussion, or after I've specifically instructed you not to. margotbean(talk) 00:08, 17 May 2021 (UTC)
I'll reply this topic in several parts below. Horizon98 (talk) 06:09, 17 May 2021 (UTC)
My intention
I created the Module:Crop Growth Calendars and Module:CraftingRecipes to reduce the repeated work which has to be done in the future update. They work well and we can update or translate the data easily. For exaple, I can use about one minute to list one crop's growth calendars with the module, and use several seconds to totally update it with another speed. But I have to use more than half an hour to list one calendar with wikitext. I took about 5 minutes to translate Template:CraftingRecipes to another language and you took more than 20 minutes. Even if there are one more craftable objects in the future, the form has to be updated entirely. While using the module, it only takes several minutes to update the data.
You said that I've thought about it and made the best and final decision for the wikis, based on information that you may not have.. You could explain the decision instead of saying based on information that I don't have.
Apart from this, I created the Template:CraftingRecipes. But you reverted my update of the template without practical reason. In other words, did I lose the permission to edit the template that I created?
Talk pages
I have talked on your talk page or other relating pages before editing templates. But you don't provide practical reasons why you refuse to use the module, or just ignored the talks. In some situation, you reverted my edit on other pages without reason.
Unfinished talks:
Talk:Crop Growth Calendars#Using module to replace this page
zh:User talk:Margotbean#Strange Capsule
User talk:Horizon98#New editor
User talk:Margotbean#Apply for the permission to edit module pages
About violating the wiki policy
I don't konw the policy that we can't undo edits by an Admin according to Help:Editing or other pages. And I didn't repeatedly undo your edits. The revisions are on different pages no more than 2 times and I think that my revisions are reasonable and follow the 3RR rule.
This wiki is maintained by everyone
I have learned a lot from the wiki. And I understand that maintaining such a wiki will takes you several hours everyday. And it's a hard work to maintain the wiki for years. Sincerely, I admire your continuous work on the wiki. But this wiki is maintained by contributors from the Stardew Valley community and the wiki's moderators and administrators. Everyone can help you with updating pages, improving the wiki and protect this wiki from vandalism.
--Horizon98 (talk) 06:09, 17 May 2021 (UTC)
Something you have done
Restrict common users to edit module after the Talk:Crop Growth Calendars.
3 minutes later after the zh:User talk:Horizon98#Templates, you deleted Module:Crop Growth Calendars which has nothing to do with this talk without notification in advance. And I lost the latest version of the module.
Ignore the talks and refuse to communicate:
Talk:Crop Growth Calendars#Using module to replace this page Patrol log
zh:User talk:Margotbean#Strange Capsule Patrol log
User talk:Horizon98#New editor Patrol log
User talk:Horizon98#Templates Patrol log
Stardew Valley Wiki:Admin noticeboard#Cargo Tables Patrol log
I don't think what you have done is a good way to solve problems, especially as an admin. The only way to solve problems is communication.
--Horizon98 (talk) 05:27, 18 May 2021 (UTC)
Language Links
I've asked you not to use your bot account to update thousands of pages with language links, and you've indicated that you intend to do so anyway.
My reasons are multiple, and include considerations that I need not go into here, but some of the reasons are:
Your bot account has made mistakes in the past, and cleanup of such a large number of edits would take an immense amount of time
Not all of the pages are created yet; the links exist on the English wiki solely to facilitate page creation in other languages.
I feel I also need to remind you that when an Administrator makes a decision, you are not free to ignore that decision without consequences. This is also not wikipedia, and wikipedia rules do not necessarily apply.
I want us to work together, but you make it difficult by demanding specific reasons for every decision, and then arguing with each one of them. This is not acceptable behavior, and cannot continue.
I've asked you to concentrate your efforts on translation and updating the Chinese wiki. If you're not interested in doing so, then I thank you for your past efforts and wish you well. margotbean (talk) 17:23, 29 June 2021 (UTC)
Thanks for your reply. You can say these words at the first time when I started a discussion on your talkpage. I asked for the explanation because that I don't understand when there is an easier and quicker way to update pages to reduce everyone's work and you refuse to take them. Here are my replies:
The mistakes were made about 5 months ago, and we have talked about that on the zh:User talk:Horizon98#Language Links. Then I took about 2 hours to fix hu links after the talk. And now I've modified the bot's code, it works well as you can see. There's no mistake in the edits of last few days (more than 100 edits).
If you want to avoid adding none-existent pages, it's ok. The original script removes none-existent pages, I modified the code to reserve these links. Just restore those parts of codes, then none-existent pages' language links on none-English wiki will be gone.
I will only use the bot to update interwiki links that have been updated on the English wiki in the future, and it will not update all pages according to your replies.
Yes, this is not wikipedia. But we can learn useful things which can be adapted to this wiki from wikipedia to improve stardew valley wiki.
It's not a good experience when all of your practical improvements are rejected without reason or just ignored by others, so rejecting the ideas with practical reasons is essential. I think that it's a basic politeness in communication.
I have created and translated 67 new pages on Chinese wiki in tha past 5 days. The nearly red zh:Template:Navboxfurniture is now almost turned into blue resulting from the contribution of me and BolingH.
I want us to work together, too. But the precondition is effective communication.
At last, thanks for your reply and all of your work again. Have a nice day! Horizon98 (talk) 18:18, 29 June 2021 (UTC)
Should have visited sooner
I should have visited yours and a few other user's pages sooner, it would have helped me to better understand the scope, direction and administration practices of this wiki and would have saved me a lot of time and effort. Thanks for your post on the admin page that lead here. :) Username_Removed (talk) 00:16, 5 July 2021 (UTC)
I'm glad it helped! :D Horizon98 (talk) 05:24, 5 July 2021 (UTC)
Emails between Cole Medeiros and me
Add additional content of User talk:Margotbean#You are abusing your admin's right to make the conversation in public. I've gotten Cole's permission to post them here. Please forgive my poor English which caused many grammar and spelling mistakes 😕. --Horizon98 (Discussion) 16:24, 3 September 2021 (UTC)
Emails 

























"Coat of many colors"
Hello Horizon98! I would like to see if you could help me undertake a large project: adding shortcuts from all usable items that can be used to dye clothes, to Emily, Haley, and their house, 2 willow lane. I have asked Duebsor, Jakstrange, User314159, and now you, mostly because only User314159 responded, and they said they would not likely be able to help, but would if they could. If you wish to help, please do the 'yellow' section of the dye pots section of the dyeing page. I understand if you do not want to help, but it would be much appreciated! Fnaticlyric560 (talk) 01:11, 8 September 2021 (UTC)
Sorry for the delay. I'm a little busy in the past few days. I have helped update all left pages 😉 --Horizon98 (Discussion) 18:25, 10 September 2021 (UTC)
Oh wow! Thanks for the help! :D Fnaticlyric560 (talk) 19:53, 10 September 2021 (UTC)
Helpfulness squared
Hello again, Horizon98! I was thinking: I am trying to find ways to be more productive for the wiki, and during my last project, Coat of many colors, I found your bot to be VERY useful. And if I am going to be doing more of those sorta projects, I do not want to need to harass you every time I start a project to ask you to use your bot. So, I am curious as to how people even make said bots, and was wondering if you could tell me how to make my own. Fnaticlyric560 (talk) 17:31, 11 October 2021 (UTC)
Hi, Fnaticlyric! I used Pywikibot and also got the scripts from there. I wrote a simple guide about how to use pywikibot on SDV wiki in Chinese on the bot's Chinese user page. It could be helpful with google translate (especially the config file). You can also try AutoWikiBrowser. I didn't use this, but it should work too. Also, be careful when you are running the bot to make sure it works correctly. --Horizon98 (Discussion) 17:52, 11 October 2021 (UTC)
Thank you! I will ask you if I come across any further questions. Fnaticlyric560 (talk) 19:43, 11 October 2021 (UTC)
Category: User talk pages